---
title: "pianos, penmanship, and pauses: on the materiality and intimacy of typing"
layout: post
---

on the kinesiological:

some of my friends have commented on the way i type, the way you might notice things about a piano player's playing style

in both typing & piano playing—the hands' resting position on the keys, the arch (or lack thereof) of the fingers, the force of the depression, the tactile familiarity with the keys, the weight of the touch, whether the fingers in general flit or dance or strike

the position and posture and movement of the hands (not to mention the rest of the body) have a big influence on how a specific piece of music sounds and also what your personal piano playing style sounds like

((the way i came to jot this down right after practicing piano for the day))

(and just a quick thought to this but perhaps full keyboard : full piano :: mobile keyboard : mobile (thumb) piano)

on the representative:

penmanship! enough's said abt handwriting & cursive & letter writing (and i'd rather not harp on about "dying art" (because there's also so much digital intimacy (and have you seen the girlies' bullet journals (and the whole lettering community (&c &c—))))

but yes! the materiality of using your hand to shape your words on the very piece of paper that another person will hold and read has a tangible charm to it (and the reverse for reading a letter). to see the quirks of the hand—variations, loops, flow, size…

on the mechanical:

(i don't know too much about this but) radio operators have idiosyncratic styles (their "fist") when sending morse code depending on the rhythm and length of their dots and dashes

it makes me wonder what if typing on a keyboard could be force-sensitive? and rhythm-sensitive? and other-things-sensitive? how could that connect to qualities of digital writing to open up avenues of expression and intimacy :)

type fast and light? a pretty script font

hunt and peck? big block letters, something weighty that reflects the effort

use your long nails instead of your fingers to type? (i don't know what this would be but i just learned about this and you're cooler than me)

(and other characteristics of how you get words onto the computer?

custom-built mechanical keyboard with artisan keycaps? it's bundled with an equally beautiful font

140 wpm w/ 30% accuracy? doctor's note handwriting

backspace a lot? the writing window gets smudged over time)

the emails that my friends and i used to send to each other in middle school were so decorated and stylised and colourful like i forgot these menu options were here and that we used to get SO MUCH mileage out of them

those are intentional choices, like if you were playing different pieces of music or writing different kinds of letters. what if you also had an idiosyncratic typing style that could be materially felt in the text you typed, like a typing "fist"?