---
layout: post
title: Coem
description: Always re-articulating
---

Here’s me trying to articulate, through reflecting and writing, what this “poetic programming language” means to me.

## Truth

I’m wondering if it’s to do with truth.

I’d like to write poems that are true — not in literal fact, but in spirit, in how they burst forth from kernels of emotional truth. 

Writing is so often a solitary and faith-based practice. For all that poets pore over their words — judiciously, preciously, agonisingly — all they have to go on in the end is the conviction that the words feel right to them, and that will always just have to be enough. In other words, the directive is to bleed out on the page and trust that you’ve done well enough for someone else to see your wound from the other side.

The fact is that there will never be any way to know if I have been true enough in my writing. Maybe with this project I am trying to ask: what if there was a way to know that someone could hold space for every word I have to say, even if it’s just my computer, in its own funny little constrained way.

I think it’s about echoes, it’s about resonance,  and it’s about mirroring.

## Mirroring

I’m trying to figure out a way to let my computer come play in this world. To be clear, it’s not about creating a system big enough to fit all kinds of poems — just one particular kind of poem. I’m learning the computer’s language, trying to figure out a way for both of us to find meaning in this practice.

The layers of encoding echo like overtones. I store my beloved in a variable and my loving in a function.

To me, these tools are a way to examine my words, over and over until I hear how they resonate with different overtones. I write, on/to/with my computer, “let me be true”. It spells the letters back to me — “l-e-t-space-m-e-space-b-e-space-t-r-u-e” — the attentive thing. It finds the tokens — “let” is a familiar word in its dictionary, that quiet prayer, that open-chested word; “me” — an unfamiliar word that must be a variable, something to fill in and wash over with colour, but what with; there’s “be”, the word of assignment, so here it comes — and it’s “true”, a boolean, that constant that means yes, means whole, means go, means this is right. I’ve given it a sentence but really it’s a question, and as a response it puts the pieces together for me. Tells me there’s a variable, a reference to that thing called “me”, and we’re going to colour it with “true”, say that anywhere you put “me”, it will vibrate with intention, be infectious with yes-ness.

Me and my computer, we’re both one step closer to understanding what I’m trying to say.