---
layout: post
title: Coem
description: Always re-articulating
---

Here’s me trying to articulate, through reflecting and writing, what this “poetic programming language” means to me.

I’m trying to figure out a way to let my computer come play in this world. To be clear, it’s not about creating a system big enough to fit all kinds of poems — just one particular kind of poem. I’m learning the computer’s language, trying to figure out a way for both of us to find meaning in this practice.

The layers of encoding echo like overtones. I store my beloved in a variable and my loving in a function.

To me, these tools are a way to examine my words, over and over until I hear how they resonate with different overtones. I write, on/to/with my computer, “let me be true”. It spells the letters back to me — “l-e-t-space-m-e-space-b-e-space-t-r-u-e” — the attentive thing. It finds the tokens — “let” is a familiar word in its dictionary, that quiet prayer, that open-chested word; “me” — an unfamiliar word that must be a variable, something to fill in and wash over with colour, but what with; there’s “be”, the word of assignment, so here it comes — and it’s “true”, a boolean, that constant that means yes, means whole, means go, means this is right. I’ve given it a sentence but really it’s a question, and as a response it puts the pieces together for me. Tells me there’s a variable, a reference to that thing called “me”, and we’re going to colour it with “true”, say that anywhere you put “me”, it will vibrate with intention, be infectious with yes-ness.

Me and my computer, we’re both one step closer to understanding what I’m trying to say.